# Flex

## Flex Box Model and Terminology

A flex container is the box generated by an element with a computed display of flex or inline-flex. In-flow children of a flex container are called flex items and are laid out using the flex layout model.


floats do not intrude into the flex container, and the flex container’s margins do not collapse with the margins of its contents. The overflow property applies to flex containers.

* the `column-*` properties in the Multi-column Layout module [CSS3COL] have no effect on a flex container.
* `float` and `clear` do not create floating or clearance of flex item, and do not take it out-of-flow.
* `vertical-align` has no effect on a flex item.
* the `::first-line` and `::first-lette`r pseudo-elements do not apply to flex containers, and flex containers do not contribute a first formatted line or first letter to their ancestors.

## Flex container

A flex container establishes a new flex formatting context for its contents. This is the same as establishing a block formatting context, except that flex layout is used instead of block layout.

- `display: flex`
Flex layout so items have equal height 


- `flex-flow`: row wrap;
The flex-flow property is a shorthand for setting the flex-direction and flex-wrap properties


`flex-direction`: row;

`flex-wrap`: wrap;
 Allow items to wrap into multiple lines 

Once content is broken into lines, each line is laid out independently; flexible lengths and the justify-content and align-self properties only consider the items on a single line at a time.

- `justify-content`
Aligns flex items along the main axis of the current line of the flex container

This property only works if the flex items have set widths and if the total width of the items is less than the flex container

- `align-items`
Aligns flex items in the cross axis of the current line of the flex container

align-self allows this default alignment to be overridden for individual flex items. 

By default, flex items stretch to fit the container, so are all equal heights 


- `align-content`

The align-content property aligns a flex container’s lines within the flex container when there is extra space in the cross-axis, similar to how justify-content aligns individual items within the main-axis.

Note, this property has no effect on a single-line flex container.
This property only works if two conditions are true: First, the flex container must have wrap turned on; second, the flex container must be taller than the rows of flex items



## Flex item

Each in-flow child of a flex container becomes a flex item, and each contiguous run of text that is directly contained inside a flex container is wrapped in an anonymous flex item.

Flex items themselves are flex-level boxes, not block-level boxes: they participate in their container’s flex formatting context, not in a block formatting context. 

As it is out-of-flow, an `absolutely` positioned child of a flex container does not participate in flex layout.

The margins of adjacent flex items do not collapse.

Percentage margins and paddings on flex items can be resolved against either:
 - their own axis (left/right percentages resolve against width, top/bottom resolve against height), or,
 - the inline axis (left/right/top/bottom percentages all resolve against width)
 
 Authors should `avoid` using percentages in paddings or margins on flex items entirely, as they will get different behavior in different browsers.


- `order: -1`
Shift before other content (in visual order) 


- `flex: 1` (one value, flex-grow) 
defaul: 0 1 auto


This property is the key to controlling the width of flex items
If a box is not a flex item, flex has no effect


`flex-grow`
`flex-shrink`
`flex-basis`

- `align-self`

align-self allows align-items to be overridden for individual flex items. 

If either of the flex item’s cross-axis margins are auto, align-self has no effect.


Specifying `visibility:collapse` on a flex item causes it to become a collapsed flex item

---


## initial values

* flex container
  flex-direction: row
  flex-wrap: no-wrap
  justify-content: flex-start
  align-items: stretch

* flex items
  flex-grow: 0
  flex-shrink: 1
  flex-basis: auto


## other

Flex containers are not block-level elements, so some properties don’t apply to flex containers or items. 
For example, the column property doesn’t apply to flex containers, and the float and clear properties don’t apply to flex items.
