## Event & Callback

Events are great for things that can happen multiple times on the same object—keyup, touchstart etc. With those events you don't really care about what happened before you attached the listener

```js
// add this function to the job queue after 500 ms have passed
setTimeout(function() {
    console.log("Timeout");
}, 500)
console.log("Hi!");

```

## Promise   

A promise is a placeholder for the result of an asynchronous operation.

Any Promise object is in one of three mutually exclusive states: `fulfilled`, `rejected`, and `pending`:

Calling `resolve()` `reject()` triggers an asynchronous operation. Functions passed to `then()` and `catch()` are executed asynchronously, because these are also added to the `job queue`

Each call to `then()` or `catch()` actually creates and returns another promise. This second promise is resolved only when the first has been fulfilled or rejected

---

Promises are a bit like event listeners except:

- A promise can only succeed or fail `once`. 
- If a promise has succeeded or failed and you later add a success/failure callback, the correct callback will be called, even though the event took place earlier.

**Queuing asynchronous actions**

You can also chain thens to run async actions in sequence.

When you return something from a `then()` callback, it's a bit magic. If you return a value, the next `then()` is called with that value. However, if you return something promise-like, the next `then()` waits on it, and is only called when that promise settles (succeeds/fails)

---
## Generator + Promise

The important pattern to recognize: a generator can yield a promise, and that promise can then be wired to resume the generator with its fulfillment value.

Promises are a trustable system that uninverts the inversion of control of normal callbacks or thunks (see the Async & Performance title of this series). So, combining the trustability of Promises and the synchronicity of code in generators effectively addresses all the major deficiencies of callbacks. Also, utilities like Promise.all([ .. ]) are a nice, clean way to express concurrency at a generator’s single yield step.

## async / await

`async` function is essentially syntactic sugar for the `generators + promises + run(..)` pattern; under the covers, it operates the same!

```js
(async function() {
	let contents = await readFile("config.json");
	doSomethingWith(contents);
	console.log("Done");
});

```
Async functions *always* return a promise, whether you use `await` or not. That promise resolves with whatever the async function returns, or rejects with whatever the async function throws.

The `async` keyword before function indicates that the function is meant to run in an asynchronous manner. The `await` keyword signals that the function call to readFile("config.json") should return a `promise`, and if it doesn’t, the response should be wrapped in a promise. 

When you `await` a promise, the function is paused in a non-blocking way until the promise settles. If the promise fulfills, you get the value back. If the promise rejects, the rejected value is thrown. Anything you `await` is passed through `Promise.resolve()`, so you can safely await non-native promises.

`await` will throw an error if the promise is rejected and otherwise return the value from the promise.

async 的返回值, await f()的返回值都是promise
1. f() resolve,  await f()返回 resolve 的值, async 返回 promise
2. f() reject, await f() 没有返回值, async 返回该 reject promise